README.md, before:

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/96074751.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/96074751)

# nonce2vec
This is the repo accompanying the paper "High-risk learning: acquiring new word vectors from tiny data" (Herbelot &amp; Baroni, 2017). If you use this code, please cite the following:

A. Herbelot and M. Baroni. 2017. High-risk learning: Acquiring new word vectors from tiny data. *Proceedings of EMNLP 2017 (Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing)*.


**Abstract**

Distributional semantics models are known to struggle with small data. It is generally accepted that in order to learn 'a good vector' for a word, a model must have sufficient examples of its usage. This contradicts the fact that humans can guess the meaning of a word from a few occurrences only. In this paper, we show that a neural language model such as Word2Vec only necessitates minor modifications to its standard architecture to learn new terms from tiny data, using background knowledge from a previously learnt semantic space. We test our model on word definitions and on a nonce task involving 2-6 sentences' worth of context, showing a large increase in performance over state-of-the-art models on the definitional task. 

# Pre-requisites
You will need a pre-trained gensim model. You can go and train one yourself, using the gensim repo at [https://github.com/rare-technologies/gensim](https://github.com/rare-technologies/gensim), or simply download ours, pre-trained on Wikipedia: 

`wget http://clic.cimec.unitn.it/~aurelie.herbelot/wiki_all.model.tar.gz`

If you use our tar file, the content should be unpacked into the models/ directory of the repo.

# Running the code

Here is an example of how to run the code on the test set of the definitional dataset, with the best identified parameters from the paper:

`python test_def_nonces.py models/wiki_all.sent.split.model data/definitions/nonce.definitions.300.test 1 10000 3 15 1 70 1.9 5`

# The data

In the data/ folder, you will find two datasets, split into training and test sets:

* The Wikipedia 'definitional dataset', produced specifically for this paper.
* A pre-processed version of the 'Chimera dataset' (Lazaridou et al, 2017). More details on this data are to be found in the README of the data/chimeras/ directory.

We thank the authors of the Chimera dataset for letting us use their data. We direct users to the original paper:

A. Lazaridou, M. Marelli and M. Baroni. 2017. Multimodal word meaning induction from minimal exposure to natural text. *Cognitive Science*. 41(S4): 677-705.

Commit message:

Added info about code location.

README.md, after:

[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/96074751.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/96074751)

# nonce2vec
This is the repo accompanying the paper "High-risk learning: acquiring new word vectors from tiny data" (Herbelot &amp; Baroni, 2017). If you use this code, please cite the following:

A. Herbelot and M. Baroni. 2017. High-risk learning: Acquiring new word vectors from tiny data. *Proceedings of EMNLP 2017 (Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing)*.


**Abstract**

Distributional semantics models are known to struggle with small data. It is generally accepted that in order to learn 'a good vector' for a word, a model must have sufficient examples of its usage. This contradicts the fact that humans can guess the meaning of a word from a few occurrences only. In this paper, we show that a neural language model such as Word2Vec only necessitates minor modifications to its standard architecture to learn new terms from tiny data, using background knowledge from a previously learnt semantic space. We test our model on word definitions and on a nonce task involving 2-6 sentences' worth of context, showing a large increase in performance over state-of-the-art models on the definitional task. 

## A note on the code
We have had queries about *where* exactly the Nonce2Vec code resides. Since it is a modification of the original gensim Word2Vec model, it is located in the gensim/models directory, confusingly still under the name *word2vec.py*. All modifications described in the paper are implemented in that file. Note that there is no C implementation of Nonce2Vec, so the program runs on standard numpy. Also, only skipgram is implemented -- the cbow functions in the code are original Word2Vec.


## Pre-requisites
You will need a pre-trained gensim model. You can go and train one yourself, using the gensim repo at [https://github.com/rare-technologies/gensim](https://github.com/rare-technologies/gensim), or simply download ours, pre-trained on Wikipedia: 

`wget http://clic.cimec.unitn.it/~aurelie.herbelot/wiki_all.model.tar.gz`

If you use our tar file, the content should be unpacked into the models/ directory of the repo.

## Running the code

Here is an example of how to run the code on the test set of the definitional dataset, with the best identified parameters from the paper:

`python test_def_nonces.py models/wiki_all.sent.split.model data/definitions/nonce.definitions.300.test 1 10000 3 15 1 70 1.9 5`

For the chimeras dataset, you can run with:

`python test_chimeras.py models/wiki_all.sent.split.model data/chimeras/chimeras.dataset.l4.tokenised.test.txt 1 10000 3 15 1 70 1.9 5`

(changing the chimeras test set for testing on 2, 4 or 6 sentences).


## The data

In the data/ folder, you will find two datasets, split into training and test sets:

* The Wikipedia 'definitional dataset', produced specifically for this paper.
* A pre-processed version of the 'Chimera dataset' (Lazaridou et al, 2017). More details on this data are to be found in the README of the data/chimeras/ directory.

We thank the authors of the Chimera dataset for letting us use their data. We direct users to the original paper:

A. Lazaridou, M. Marelli and M. Baroni. 2017. Multimodal word meaning induction from minimal exposure to natural text. *Cognitive Science*. 41(S4): 677-705.
